I wanted to document some info. I know this won't become popular or anything.
I just... wanted it somewhere for someone to read I guess.
This is here for me as much as it is for other people. 
If none read it, then I am glad it's down somewhere. 
Maybe it's the part of me that likes old game mysteries and beta info that makes me want to put this here.

In this game, many things have changed and been removed. 
I will list some of these changes here, so that others may know of what wasn't.

0. Old Display
The oldest version of this game was going to be a data entry type form thing.
It was going to have buttons where most of the actions are done. 
It didn't really make sense the way it was, since this is when I first...
started learning about programming. I even considered gridbag. 
Luckily I discovered I can do a lot more with this method of screen display.

1. Cipher System
Once, long ago, the game was going to have all text substitution ciphered. It would have been translated back before it was displayed.
This was... not a good idea. It made things difficult to work with and was buggy as heck.

2. Developer Character
Once, a character was going to be implemented that talked to the player about stuff.
Mostly about how they are making a game... this game. 
They were going to talk about old features or changes that didn't get in it.
Over time, I realized this character may not be a good fit for the game.
They didn't have much to talk about too, since it was canceled a while ago.

3. More Monster Types
More monster types were considered. I has a bunch of them thought out, but I narrowed it down to these few.
Consider how many monsters are in this game, and think about what it means for me to "narrow it down".
I realized I had more than enough monsters. So I guess I went with it.

4. Another game
The crafting system comes from another game idea I had, and might still make someday.
I thought it would be cool to make them parallel dimentions so I can use the crafting for both.
Maybe not the best idea, but it lets me do certain things I wouldn't have thought of before.
Now, the Ability User thing I work on sometimes is connected to my RPG series. Odd right?
The RPG is a little more loose with how the crafting should work.

5. Cooking
Every cook recipe was going to have unique dialogue. Every single one.
It was changed at some point.

6. There was another game planned before this one
That game was too complicated to make at the time. It was going to be a more proper RPG with the whole shebang. 
Sounds, music, textures, changing color pallets for enemies and the like. I was planning something big.
This, was like... my first game. So I had to do something smaller.
Then I made it more complicated and bigger, and it became a lot more fancy than it was going to be.

7. CodeX was going to be the name of the game.
I changed it cause text only RPG sounds better and makes more sense. CodeX ended up being something else though.
I really ahd the idea of making CodeX more important to the game, by making the save a "password".
I realized that the "password" was really long and complicated and needed to change it somehow.
So CodeX changed. It is difficult to use and hard to understand. Better than the original idea though.

Some more development info because I wanted to document it somewhere. May contain spoilers.
"Final" Boss.
This was like, the first thing planned when I started on bosses/enemies. Even when it expanded to Two the theme was still there.
Then it became three, so a new type was introduced. That's partly hpw it happened.

It became three a long time ago. Three sets of enemies. Normal, then harder, then the third.
Then I became interested in adding another layer to it. Instantly three sets became more like 6 and then it became 9.
There are lots of monster entries now. If this game ever get's made I will be surprised I managed to do all of this.
There are probably too many. If there is a sequel I may add less monsters, but you know how development plans change.

It would be irresponsible to say I was making the sequel for certain. 
and...
It is not a certainty. 
but...
I may still make it, but... Well. I started this game like... 10 years ago, stopped and then began again. I don't know how long a sequel would take me.
Hopefully not long, but if I want to make it with all the things I think it should have, it will probably take a long time for me to make.
This one is taking a long time to make. 
Why would I take so long to make a game anyway?
Well, here is the answer. 
1. I wanted to make it as cool as I could, even if it takes a while.
2. Not many people are waiting or care that this game will be made, so I can take a long time making it.
3. It's okay if it's not the best because it is my first game. I am very noob at programming and I am still learning here and there.
		

Let's talk secrets. Maj0r spoilers for stuff in the game, but there is still some dev info I want to list somewhere.

Glitches are a good inspiration for some things in this game, even though a lot of glitch like stuff didn't make it into this game.
Consider this.

Glitches are... complicated. They can be interesting, but at the same time they usually mean something is wrong with a game.
How do you then add in enemies or things witch glitch properties and not make the game look broken?
It's really hard to think about how people are going to react to this stuff.

Super maor spoiler for a secret thing here...

Cutscenes and Beta Quest. How does this work?

Well, I wanted to make a thing like that. I took it, looked at it, and set it down in a corner.
Then I treid to make my own version of it. Something different. It works way better than I could have expected it to.
Like... I have no idea how it turned out the way it did! But I am glad it works like it does.

Cipher enemy. This was going to be used more, but... Well, I need another cipher. I think the one I use is similar to something that already exists somewhere.

The CodeX screen. Why does it work like this?
Well, in some games you have mechanics which are easy to use an understand...
In some other games you have mechanics which are harder and more obscure.
Then you have some things which do not work easily and sometimes not too well.
It's sort of like that. One of those mechanics that don't seem like they were made with the game in mind.
What is it based upon was sort of easy to use unless you wanted to make your own codes.
That was complicated. You had to know what you were doing and you might still break something.
They were really popular back then and there were lots of them.
You can still probably find codes for them online, but they aren't really used anymore.
"Game Enhancers", Cheat devices. They go by many different names, but they always have this data modify code entry thing to them.

Ah yes. Mirror mode. The mode that was not a mode. It was partly a thing, but didn't become more than it is now.

You have read a lot. Thank you for taking the time to look at this. Now, haw about a story as a reward?

Sometime not too long before te game began...

A Blacksmith worked in his small village. It was far enough away from the other places so that it was quite.
It was close enough to them to have good business.
It was a good place to set up shop.

The blacksmith knew almost everyone in town and talked to them regularly while working. It was a nice place.

One day, a small girl from the village came to talk. She waited as another adventurer talked to the blacksmith.

Adventurer: You thinkt his sword can cut though that?
Blacksmith: Sure can! It can cut through almost anything, maybe even the wind!
Adventurer: Great! Thanks for the sword. Have a nice day!

The girl walked over to the blacksmith, but remebered to stand away so whe would not get hurt as he worked.

Girl: You made a sword that can cut wind? What aobut a sword that can cut nothing?

The blacksmith chuckled. 

Blacksmith: A sword that can cut nothin isn't too helpful now. It's got to cut something.

The girl frowned.

Girl: No sir. A sword that can cut everything and nothing! 

The blacksmith seemed to understand now. Stioll, he was a little confused.

Blacksmith: Not sure I can make a sword like that. 
Girl: Okay.

She left, happy with the answer. The blacksmith wasn't too certain though. With the right material, 
could he make a sword that could cut nothingness? 
What would happen if it could? 

A few days later, a group of adventurers came with materials. Odd materials. They wanted new gear, so the Blacksmith set to work. 
He made them all new equipment, and was paid in money and materials.
Odd materials.

The Blasmith practiced with the odd materials to see what they could do. One peice of "metal" was odd. It wss filled with an emptiness.
What could one do with a metal filled with nothingness? Could one make a sword that could cut nothing?

After proacticing he was ready. The Blaclsmith took the rest of his foreign materials and began to create a sword.
It was going to be plain, but very well made. A sword that oculd cut nothing. Perfectly sharp. Straight as an arrow.
Light, balanced. Flexible and sturdy. It was to be a masterpeice. He even took a whitish gemstone and used that in the sword.

Null Edge. The sword of nothing.

A sword that could cut nothingness.
What would happen if it was used? At first, the blacksmith was afraid. Then he tried it. He desired to make some water, so he cut the air.
Water came out. Just a little bit. It was a sword of crazy power!

Afraid to use it too much, the Blacksmith put the sword on display. 

This sword was special. It shouldn't be used too much.

The next day the sword had moved. Had someone tried to steal it? The blacsmith changed all his locks with new ones, and made his shop more secure.

Then it moved again. Odd things seemed to happen and one day a simple slime attacked him in town!

This sword... Was it... bad in some way? The blacksmith had to know. He called upon some help andf waited.

Help came, and they were going to examine the sword.

As if knowing what was going to happen, the sword began to float and move on it's own! 
It was not wanting to be examined, for then people would know that it was a monster! A monster with plans.

The sword decided to leave and find another place to take over, while hiding as the true mastermind.

No one knows what the sword was thinking, or that it could. None knew how it had gotten smart, even the sword itself.

A certain type of magic was at play here, and it was not a normal type people knew about.

The sword left, being drawn to an immense power somewhere nearby. It hid itself in a place not too close to that snowy mountain, but close enough to take over a town.

It found other monsters to be it's minions, and it made more to fill in the ranks. This is the story of the Null Edge. 
The empty sword that should not exist.
